stack_unwinding
===============

The stack_unwinding is a small header only C++ library which supplies primitive(class unwinding_indicator) to determining when object destructor is called due to stack-unwinding or due to normal scope leaving.

Introduction
============

This library helps to find out when it is really dangerous to throw exception from destructor. I.e. when throwing exception may lead to call std::terminate.
As the result, we may achieve exactly same effect as manually placing “.close()” at end of scope automaticly.
```Ñ++
{
   File a,b;
   // ...
   b.close(); // may throw
   a.close(); // may throw
}
```
would became
```Ñ++
{
   File a,b;
   // ...
}
```

More generally it helps to develop "advanced" Scope Guard, which respects exceptions from destructors, and does not require calling of release/commit by hands.
D langauge has scope(success) and scope(failure) which are simmilar in something to that "advanced" Scope Guard semantic.

This library has example implementations of "scope(success)" and "scope(failure)":
```Ñ++
{
    cout << "Case #1: stack unwinding" << endl;
    scope_action exit=make<scope_exit>(Print(" exit"));
    scope_action failure=make<scope_failure>(Print(" failure")); 
    scope_action success=make<scope_success>(Print(" success"));
    throw 1;
}
```

Boost has "Scope Exit" library which in examples shows using of commiting by hands.
Some quote from Boost.ScopeExit manual:
```
Boost.ScopeExit is similar to scope(exit) feature built into the D programming language.

A curious reader may notice that the library does not implement scope(success)
and scope(failure) of the D language.
Unfortunately, these are not possible in C++ because failure or success conditions
cannot be determined by calling std::uncaught_exception (see Guru of the Week #47 for
details about std::uncaught_exception and if it has any good use at all).
However, this is not a big problem because these two D's constructs can be expressed in
terms of scope(exit) and a bool commit variable
(similarly to some examples presented in the Tutorial section).
```

References
==========

* http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_51_0/libs/scope_exit/doc/html/index.html
* http://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Lang-NEXT/Lang-NEXT-2012/Three-Unlikely-Successful-Features-of-D
* http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/generic-change-the-way-you-write-excepti/184403758
* http://www.gotw.ca/gotw/047.htm

Current library status: ALPHA
=============================

* MSVC 2005: tested on x32 and x64, default settings
* MSVC 2008: tested on x32 and x64, default settings
* MSVC 2010: tested on x32 and x64, default settings
* MSVC 2012: tested on x32 and x64, default settings
* GCC 4.1.2: tested on x32 and x64, default settings
* Clang 3.2:  tested on x32 and x64, default settings


Implementation details
======================

Currently library is implemented on top of platform-specific implementation of uncaught_exception_count function.
uncaught_exception_count is a function similar to std::uncaught_exception from standard library, but instead of boolean result it returns unsigned int showing current count of uncaught exceptions.

About
======

* Author: Evgeny Panasyuk
* Initial Release Date: 27/09/2012

License
=======

Copyright (c) 2012, Evgeny Panasyuk

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.